README.md, before:

<!--
  Copyright (c) 2025 ADBC Drivers Contributors

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

# ADBC Drivers for HiveServer2-based Servers

This repository contains [ADBC drivers](https://arrow.apache.org/adbc/) for
Databricks, implemented in different languages.

## Installation

At this time pre-packaged drivers are not yet available. See [Building](#building) for instructions on building from source.

## Building

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

chore(ci): update notice and readme (#8)
<!--
    Copyright (c) 2025 ADBC Drivers Contributors

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.
-->

## What's Changed

- Update NOTICE and README file, as suggested.

README.md, after:

<!--
  Copyright (c) 2025 ADBC Drivers Contributors

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

# ADBC Drivers for HiveServer2-based Servers

This repository contains [ADBC drivers](https://arrow.apache.org/adbc/) for
HiveServer2-based servers (Hive, Impala, and Spark), implemented in C# language.

## Installation

At this time pre-packaged drivers are not yet available. See [Building](#building) for instructions on building from source.

## Building

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).
